# Wind-Simulation

The software opens the file, named  “simulationConfiguration.txt”, which stores the parameters for the wind simulation. 
The first line stores the wind simulation configurations, namely the average speed, gust 
value, duration, and step size). The second line stores the storm simulation parameters, 
namely the storm probability, the minimum and maximum storm amplitude, and the 
minimum and maximum storm duration values. The third line stores the microburst 
parameters, namely thee microburst probability, the minimum and maximum burst 
amplitude, and the minimum and maximum microburst duration values. Here is the 
structure of the configuration file:

1- Average Wind Speed, gust value, simulation duration, step size
2- Storm probability (Pstorm), min and max storm amplitude, and min and max storm duration 
3 -Microburst probability (Pburst), min and max microburst amplitude, min and max microburst 
duration 

The program reads the average wind speed, the gust value, the duration and step size of 
the wind speed simulation from the “simulationConfiguration.txt” file (first line). The 
program will generate a data file named “WindSpeedData.txt” that contains the 
simulated wind speeds. The time will always start with 0 seconds. Each line of the 
“WindSpeedData.txt” file will contain the time in seconds and the corresponding 
wind speed. The wind speed is a random number between the (average speed + gust 
value) and the (average speed - gust value).

The wind speed simulation will include storm simulation. Assuming that the 
possibility of encountering a storm at each time step is Pstorm, the program will add a 
storm magnitude (a random number between the minimum and maximum storm 
amplitude values) to the simulated wind speed for a duration T (a random number 
between the minimum and maximum storm duration). The storm parameters are read 
from the “simulationConfiguration.txt” configuration file (second line). The storm 
simulation data will be stored in the file “StormData.txt”.

The storm simulation will also include a simulation of microbursts. Microburst are 
simulated using three parameters: the possibility of encountering a microburst at each 
time step in a storm (Pburs), the burst amplitude (a random number between the 
minimum and maximum microburst amplitude values), and the duration of the burst (a 
random number between the minimum and maximum storm duration values). The burst
parameters are read from the “simulationConfiguration.txt” configuration file (third 
line). The microburst data will be stored in the file “BurstData.txt”.

Generate the final wind simulation by combining the wind speed, storm, and burst data
(three files created during steps 2 to 4). Save the result in a data file named 
“WindSimulation.txt”. You may add a binary value to each line signifying whether a 
storm is active at the same.

The final wind simulation will be generated by combining the wind speed, storm, and burst data
(three files created during steps 2 to 4) and will save the result in a data file named 
“WindSimulation.txt”. A binary value will be added to each line signifying whether a 
storm is active at the same.
